## What are the three main processes in project communications management? Briefly describeeach process.

### Plan communications

You can start managing your project's communication strategy by creating a communications management plan. The communications management plan needs to document communications requirements throughout the life of a project. Some of these [、requirements include:

**Cadence:** How frequently are updates going to be sent out?

**Audience:** Who will project communications be sent out to? Is there a different group for different types of communications?

**Purpose:** Will progress reports be sent out at each milestone? Will change requests be shared with all stakeholders?

**Channel:** What channels will be used for communication?

The communications management plan should include as much detail as possible so that there are clear expectations set and all stakeholders are on the same page.

### Manage communications

Now that all stakeholders have agreed on the communications management plan, the project manager needs to ensure that project communications follow those guidelines. The communications plan should be seen as a living document throughout the life cycle of a project, but any changes should be communicated to the project team.

### Control communications

Not all stakeholders find relevance in every project detail. Because of this, only include stakeholders on communications when necessary. Create sub-groups of stakeholders to decide what types of communications they need to receive. These include project status, project performance, risks, costs, and others. Being effective in controlling communication streamlines project management and saves project leaders and team members from getting irrelevant updates and emails.